---
title: "Barefoot Observations"
tags:
    - running
    - barefoot
    - health
---
> It all started in 1955, when I was born, and youâ€™re probably not going to believe this, without shoes!
> -- Barefoot Ken Bob Saxton

As you may know, I am a barefoot runner.  Running Barefoot has taught me
that I actually love being barefoot. It's freeing, simple, and the way we
are meant to be.

For a while now I've been trying to be barefoot as much as possible, and
I've made some interesting observations along the way. Everywhere I've gone
for the past 10 months, I've gone either barefoot, or in minimalist shoes
(Vibram Five Finger Sprints, or Terra Plana Vivobarefoot Roots).  Here are
my observations from the experience.

I love being barefoot - It's fun. It makes me feel like a kid again.

Being barefoot is minimalism - It's hard to get much more minimal than your
bare feet. It makes me realize how little we really need. I look at shoes
very differently these days. They are useful tools for certain situations
(cold weather, rough surfaces, etc.), but certainly not always necessary.

My body regulates its temperature better when I'm barefoot - I haven't found
any studies to back this up, but my body seems to be more aware of my
surrounding temperature when I'm barefoot. This seems to allow my body to
adjust better to temperature changes, and keep me warmer when I need to be
warmer, and cooler when I need to be cooler. Has anyone else noticed this?

I love discovering new surfaces barefoot - Every time I'm barefoot and see a
new surface, I rush to walk on it -- to feel it. Every surface is different,
and each brings its own, unique, sensations.

I love feeling things between my toes - Blades of grass, sand, small
pebbles, wind -- they all feel great between my toes.

I feel more connected to the earth - Walking around barefoot connects me
directly with the surface I'm walking on. This gives me much more of a
physical connection, but also creates a mental connection with my
surroundings.   My brain collects loads of information about my surroundings
from the millions of nerves in my feet.  With shoes, this information is
muted.

I feel more connected to my body - Similarly, being barefoot makes me more
aware of what my feet and legs are doing.  My mind makes subtle adjustments
to my stride, my foot falls, and my muscles based on feedback it receives
from my feet.

Being barefoot often elicits strange looks - Maybe a negative to some
people, but I've learned to just get over it. Some people just don't seem to
understand why anyone would walk around barefoot.   Maybe they should try
it.

I have better balance when barefoot - I had pretty good balance anyway, but
I notice that I feel more stable when I stand or walk when I'm barefoot. I
certainly feel more able to adapt and adjust quickly if I step on uneven
ground, or find something obstructing my path.

My arches have risen - I don't have any concrete measurements for this, but
it seems the arches on my feet have risen and gotten stronger. My arches no
longer fatigue even after walking around for miles and miles all day (they
used to).

My toes are longer - Again, I don't have any concrete measurements here, but
I believe at least my pinky toe has gotten longer.   It is possible that it
has just gotten straighter.  After all, it hasn't been battling with the
side of a shoe (why aren't shoes shaped like feet, again?).  I notice this
because my toes now touch the ends of my Vibram Five Fingers more than they
used to.  I wish I had taken some before and after photos of my feet.

My feet hate socks - Now that it's getting cold, I'm having to wear socks
more frequently. My feet are certainly fighting back. Socks are like ear
muffs on my feet. My feet feel dead and scream to be free when I suffocate
them in a sock. They have gotten used to all the "noise" from the surfaces I
walk on and the open dryness their nakedness allows for. Sweaty, dark, muted
socks don't make them happy.

My feet don't smell -- my socks and shoes do - When I'm barefoot for most of
the day and my feet are allowed to breathe in the open air, they never
smell. Really. If I have to put them in shoes -- or more particularly, socks
-- that's when the real odors appear. Also, I never get comments from
co-workers or friends on days when I'm barefoot all day. If I wear socks in
the morning and take them off at work, that's when I get smelly feet jokes.

I enjoy walking more - I find myself more eager and willing to go walk the
dog if I'm going barefoot (which is now pretty much all the time). I often
crave getting my bare feet out in the world, which leads to more
just-for-fun strolls around the nearby pond. Walking barefoot has become a
[simple pleasure](http://zenhabits.net/75-simple-pleasures-to-brighten-your-day/)
which I yearn for more and more.

I enjoy running more - Running barefoot is wonderful. It cultivates mental
focus, clarity, and childlike playfulness all at once. How many activities
do that? Running with shoes never seems very appealing (or fun) anymore.

So there you have it: some observations on being barefoot.

Have you noticed anything interesting in your barefoot experiences?
